---
layout: post
title: Aloha!
---

Every time I go to a Career Fair, there would be at least 1 or 2 recruiters tell me to take Professor Downing’s class. There was even a recruiter told me “Take Downing’s class no matter what!” After I audited it during the last semester, I told the same thing to myself.

Prof. Downing’s class is very fast-paced, with a lot of question-answer sections, also a lot of homework. But it is totally worthy because it gives students similar to real world software engineering experience. We keep learning and apply our knowledge on actual test/project.

It has a lot of readings and they are very wide-range, luckily I must to read them because they will be in the quizzes. For a procrastinator like me, I am highly impossible to read all the articles, but if there is a reason to push me, I will happily go for it.

I still remembered during last semester, I saw a group of CS373 2015 spring students, sat together and pulled their hair out because they needed to figure out how to do the project. I was kind of afraid at that time but I am now well-prepared to take the project challenge. I realized the “no pain, no gain” rule is also applicable to CS students. You will learn new thing after each frustrating failure (Although you can still learn from a nice mentor, but that painful bug will help you remember stronger).

In my opinion, there are at least 3 stages during the learning progress (I am currently at 3). The first one is the fast learning stage, you learn many new stuff and you feel like you can code whatever you want. DONT BE PROUD! Make sure you understand every single concepts and apply them as many times as you can. Sooner or later you will enter the frustration valley, you don’t know how to apply your knowledge into the problems, you don’t know where is the bug and even you know it, you don’t know how to fix it. Most people quit in this stage, but those who survived become a real programmer. Just keep moving and don’t give up, eventually you will move to the next stage, which is the steady learning stage. You may not know how to solve a problem at first, but you can look for resource and test to find solution. From now on you can proudly speak to recruiters about what you have done and they will happily invite you to the real world to solve some real problems.
